Dealing with a business crisis can be chaotic,
stressful, and downright painful.
For example, how do you handle a major product defect?
What do you say to the customers who are rightly angry,
upset, or distrustful of your brand?
What do you do to make things right
and keep your doors open?
While the answers to these questions will vary
depending on the type and cause of the crisis,
here are some basic guidelines that you should follow.
First, you need to start by simply recognizing
that you're in a crisis.
That means you need to detect the early warning signs
of a crisis and alert the right people.
Recognizing a crisis is an essential step
for activating your company's crisis response mode.
Next, take a deep breath and a step back
to try and understand the problem.
What do you know?
What's the impact?
And what is the scope of the crisis?
Don't speculate or make assumptions about the situation.
Do your research or seek further information
to understand and list the facts.
So far, you know there's a problem,
you've activated your crisis response team,
and you understand the facts.
Now it's time to make some moves.
Aim to communicate quickly,
issue a public statement as soon as you can,
ideally within an hour or two after you realize
that there's a crisis.
You need to get ahead of public communications
and take control of the narrative
that's being told about the event and your company.
Otherwise, someone else will.
As a general rule of thumb, be quick,
be honest, and be accurate.
Do not give information that isn't confirmed.
If you don't have all the facts yet,
simply say that you don't have all the facts yet.
Give regular updates across multiple communication
and social media channels.
Finally, a crisis requires businesses
to take swift and effective action.
Your first priority must be to protect people.
Are people in danger, and what can you do
to protect public and employee safety?
After public safety is secure,
you can tackle other priorities including your business,
facilities, technology, and reputation.
Get your crisis team together
to assess the current damage and lingering threats.
Then decide what steps you can take
to contain and prevent further damage.
In summary, after a crisis hits,
you need to recognize the crisis,
understand the situation, communicate with the public,
and take corrective action.
Do share the facts, take responsibility for the situation,
and address victims or customers directly.
Always put public safety first
and be accessible for answering questions
and addressing concerns.
Don't speculate, lie, or distort the truth.
Also, don't blame others or disappear
in the aftermath of a crisis.
Follow these guidelines to help you
navigate a crisis effectively
and minimize its overall impact.